Hey everyone and thanks for jumping back
into the cryptoverse.
Today we're going to talk about how
Ethereum was just rejected from its bare
market resistance band. If you guys like
the content, make sure you subscribe to
the channel, give the video a thumbs up,
and also check out the sale on into the
cryptoverse premium at into the
cryptoverse.com.
For anyone interested, I am looking to
throw a conference later this year. So,
if you are interested in going and would
like to receive updates about that
conference, you can actually go to
bjamanc.comconference
uh put in your information and then
we'll let you know uh once we have those
details. So, in this video I want to
talk a little bit about Ethereum, right?
Okay, so it's been a little while and if
you're not if you're not familiar with
sort of how I've thought that this whole
thing would play out with Ethereum in
well sort of it would go further back.
The whole idea was that it would
eventually go home before going to
all-time highs. Okay. And once Bitcoin
fell below its 50week moving average in
November, it became very obvious that
Ethereum was cooked for the rest of the
cycle and and going back into its
regression band. Now, one of the
interesting things, and I've said this
before, and you know, I'll sort of
reiterate it is I did a video on
Ethereum on the logarithmic aggression
trend line stuff like four or five years
ago. I think I first put it out, the
first one was in 2019, so I guess seven
years ago. But I remember thinking, you
know, I remember thinking back in 2021
when we sort of extended out the
regression line, I was like, gosh, it's
going to take until, you know, 2026 for
just the fair value of Ethereum
according to the regression model to go
above $2,000, right? And that's a
sobering thought when you're looking at
the market over here.
And so that kind of explained why for so
long I called for Ethereum to go home
before going to new all-time highs. But
after Bitcoin topped out in October,
obviously Ethereum uh had entered into a
bare market. Now it finds itself at more
or less that fair value logarithmic
aggression trend line.
Now,
there are a lot of people capitulating
on on ETH, and I think this is one of
those things where the market represents
all of us. Unfortunately, a lot of times
people think they're not going to be the
ones to capitulate on something um or
whatever, but the market represents
everyone. And when you go five years and
Ethereum has barely made new all-time
highs, people are going to give up,
right? I mean, if you think about it,
what have what have people really
accomplished by holding Ethereum for the
last 5 years? Not a whole lot. In fact,
in many I mean, I know there was some
yield, but in in a lot of cases, just
holding cash was better than than
holding ETH. And that might not be a
popular thing to say, but it's true,
right? Like, it's true. So, what I'm
looking for for Ethereum is is a couple
things. I will say this, and I've said
this for a long time, Ethereum this
year, probably coming up very soon
actually, will likely go to the lower
part of its regression band just like it
did at the end of 2019. That's where it
ultimately bottomed out and it had a
nice rally and then we had a recession.
So, I want to be clear about my thoughts
on on the matter for Ethereum. Ethereum
could go to the lower part of the
regression band, which roughly
corresponds to the April 2025 low.
It could go there and we still not be in
a recession. As crazy as that sounds, as
crazy as that sounds,
to go durably below the regression ban
like you got a glimpse of it in 2020,
that's recession territory, right? that
is is where you're really getting into
the into that. So, what I would say is
this. You can't really have a recession
until you have lower asset prices. And
when I call when I talk about lower
asset prices, I'm not talking about
crypto. The reality is is most people in
the world don't care about crypto at
all. Okay? Ethereum could theoretically
be trading for way less than it is right
now and still a majority of the world
wouldn't know or care. All right? So
when I talk about lower asset prices,
I'm not talking about crypto. I'm
talking about the stock market. In a
late business cycle environment, it is
the riskier assets that get hit first.
That's why Bitcoin topped out sooner.
That's why altcoins topped out a long
time ago against Bitcoin. All its topped
against Bitcoin back in 2021, right? So
you can see how the cycle plays out. It
just hasn't reached the stock market
yet. and there's not a guarantee that it
will reach it anytime within the next
few months. So, I will say this,
if Ethereum were to drop down here to
the lower part of the regression band
and there's not really clear signs of a
recession, then I might start to expect
some big counter trend move off of that
level. Now, here's where it gets
interesting for Ethereum, okay? and and
it's basically if you think about last
cycle, it actually bottomed in June. And
so I'm making this video in May because
there is a part of me that thinks, well,
what if what if history repeats itself?
Like what if Ethereum just finds sort of
a low in June? I think the most likely
outcome is that crypto bottoms in Q4. I
think Bitcoin will likely bottom in Q4,
but who knows when every individual
altcoin will bottom. So, I'll start to
look for lows for Ethereum as early as
as June just because I saw that's what
happened last cycle. And I don't want to
sit here and say, "Well, it can't happen
like that." It could. I mean, last cycle
Ethereum bottomed in June. Bitcoin
bottomed in November.
Maybe something similar will play out
again. I I don't know. So, what I would
say is this, though. In order for
Ethereum to come down here, back down to
where it was in April of 2025, Bitcoin
needs to get a larger correction. Okay?
At least you're talking back down to the
lows.
Now, here's where it gets somewhat, you
know, interesting. If you look at
Bitcoin, Bitcoin is already below the
April 2025 lows or sorry, it already
went below it. It's not below it right
this minute, but it's sort of
corresponding to a rally, not a dump.
But the ETH Bitcoin pair has been
bleeding, right? Like, it's actually
been bleeding. And what I think the most
likely scenario is is for it to come
back down, potentially back down to
where it was back over here. Could be a
higher low. I'm not saying it can't be,
but I think you'll you're you're likely
seeing it bleed. Now, why are we seeing
the ETH Bitcoin valuation bleed? Why?
Well, fundamentally, and I I hate to
break your heart if you're an ETH Maxi,
but fundamentally Bitcoin is better than
Ethereum. Okay, that is what I believe.
I understand that a lot of people
disagree with me, but fundamentally I
think Bitcoin is better than Ethereum.
And if if you don't really buy that, I
would ask you to say, well, if if
Ethereum is better, then why has it been
putting in lower highs since 2017?
Right? If it's so great and the
transition from proof of work to proof
of stick was so great, why does it just
keep on putting in lower highs? Yes, you
could argue it's been putting in higher
lows, but
this last one wasn't even that much, you
know? And it's not that archaic of an
idea to one day assume what if it is a
what if it one day puts in say a lower
low. It's not completely far-fetched to
assume that that could happen like it it
absolutely could happen. So
if you assume that the ETH bitcoin is
ratio is going down why fundamentally
only bitcoin is better but even if
bitcoin is better you can have periods
of outperformance by ethereum just like
we saw uh last year after ETH went home
and then it rallied to alltime highs.
Okay. So why else monetary policy rate
cuts? The the rate cuts that we had
priced in to enter the year have now
been priced out. And now the market is
starting to worry about rate hikes
rather than rate cuts. And so as you
price out
looser monetary policy, higher risk
assets bleed to lower risk assets. And
so you're witnessing that happen. You're
you're seeing how high risk assets, in
this case Ethereum, is bleeding again to
a lowrisk asset, Bitcoin, as monetary
policy is getting pushed further and
further out to be loosened. Look at how
it played out last cycle. Look at
interest rates.
Notice how the ETH Bitcoin pair started
doing well as interest rates durably
came back down.
The problem now is that you can see the
interest rates were coming down and
Ethereum liked it,
but now
the market's not so sure like about the
them continuing to go down. Why is it
not sure? Is because the geopolitical
conflict in the Middle East and oil
prices is going up, energy prices is
going up, and inflation is going back
up. And when inflation goes back up, the
market shifts from worrying about a
recession to worrying about the
reaceleration of inflation. And when you
have tighter monetary policy, the assets
further up the risk curve get hit the
hardest
and they start to bleed against lower
risk assets. So you're witnessing that
right now, right? Like the ETH Bitcoin
valuation
is bleeding. And so
if Bitcoin were to go back to say
60K, the last time Bitcoin was at 60K
was in February. The ETH Bitcoin ratio
is already below where it was in
February when Bitcoin was at 60K.
So if Bitcoin were to return to 60K with
the ETH Bitcoin ratio in a downtrend,
you could have Ethereum
going down here to the April 2025 low
while Bitcoin could still be around 60K,
right? Bitcoin might be at the same
valuation that it was in February
sometime in June, July, but Ethereum
could actually be at a lower valuation
because the ETH Bitcoin ratio is
bleeding.
This whole cycle is playing out how it
did last cycle. It's just a larger
version of it, right? Like you can see
how the ETH Bitcoin ratio in September
2019 had a nice little rally and then it
came back down.
same thing, right? It had a nice rally.
That rally corresponded approximately to
when quantitative tightening ended plus
or minus a few months. Um the rally also
started after Ethereum went home on its
USD pair back to its regression band.
It's just a larger version of it. I
think the ETH Bitcoin valuation will
likely continue to bleed. Okay. And it's
because of tighter monetary policy and
also it's just fundamentally because
Ethereum is not as good of an asset as
Bitcoin. But even with that, even with
that, you could still have periods where
Ethereum outperforms. But that right now
is not one of those times. Okay. So the
most likely outcome for Ethereum right
now in my opinion is you can see it's
been rejected off the bare market
resistance band. And I think it's likely
going to head down to those to the lower
part of the regression band. Now, in
terms of the 2019 analogy, you could
argue that this rally here is kind of
like that one right there. And the
reason I say that is because this is
after Ethereum went home, it had that
rally. Well, you might say, well, this
time it went to all-time highs. So,
what? Who cares? Doesn't matter. It's
just a number, right? I mean, if you
look at the the valuation, the the move
from the low, Ethereum moved up about
350%. How far up did it move over here?
240%.
Similar types of moves, right? Similar
types of moves. And then what happened
back then is that Ethereum fell off a
cliff and then started getting rejected
by the bare market resistance band just
like it is now. Right? You see the same
thing is playing out. and then it bled
down into the lower part of the
regression band and from there had a
sizable rally back up. So maybe you get
a sizable rally by Ethereum a little bit
later on, but in the short term, in the
short term,
Ethereum will likely head back down to
those April 2025 lows, which happens to
correspond to the lower part of the
regression band. I told you guys a long,
long time ago that in 2026, we'd likely
spent a lot more time in the regression
band than we did last cycle, which was
practically non-existent. Trump was in
office in 2018 and in 2018 a in 2019 you
can see we spent a lot of time down here
and we didn't really break out until
late election year. That would
correspond this cycle to potentially
2028. Okay,
here we are.
I'm saying I think we're in this
ballpark right here. We will likely
bleed down to the lows. that could
happen as early as June. And if it is,
we need to be aware of where we are
potentially in the cycle. Okay? Because
if we go down here to the lower part of
the regression band, my argument
would be that it could be the low
as long as you don't have a recession.
If you get a recession, obviously that
changes things, but no one knows if and
when that's going to happen.
So that's the argument I'm trying to
make. In the short term though, I think
the bet is a little simpler in my mind.
Obviously, it's dangerous to be
deterministic about things, but
I've been deterministic about a lot of
things the last few years and you know,
a lot a lot of it has come true, not all
of it. And and when it didn't come true,
I definitely, you know, sort of licked
my wounds for a while. But sometimes it
pays to be deterministic about about
certain things. cuz I get it it was
worthwhile to be deterministic about
Bitcoin dominance and Ethereum going
home and all that stuff. I think the
next move for Ethereum
is to come down here to the lows of
April of 2025. That'll correspond to the
ETH Bitcoin valuation coming back down
as well. Maybe back down to where it was
in June of 2025. Okay. So, let's watch
for that over the next few weeks and if
it plays out, we'll talk a little bit
more about it. And then the other thing
I wanted to mention is when you look at
ETHUSD
or sorry if you let me let's overlay
J Japan interest rates one of the things
you'll notice going switch this back to
ETHUSD.
One of the things you'll notice is that
a lot of the times that you've had big
capitulations by ETH, it's like right
after the Bank of Japan raises rates,
right? Right. Like right around the time
that the Bank of Japan raises rates,
you'll see that that's where you get
these larger liquidations on ETHUSD. You
see that time and time again. That's
where you get them. And the problem
is that the Bank of Japan is potentially
about to raise rates again in June. And
so if that's the case, then maybe you
get sort of a large liquidation down
here and then from there it tries to
build up. Okay, so those are my thoughts
on Ethereum. If you guys like the
content, make sure you subscribe to the
channel, give the video a thumbs up.
Again, check out the sale on into the
cryptoverse premium at
intothecryptoverse.com.
You can find the link to that in the
description below. We talk a lot about
crypto trends, but we also talk about
commodities like gold and silver and
even like uh food, um stocks, bonds,
the whole nine yards, right? So, check
it out. And also, if you are interested
in the first ITC conference, make sure
you check that out as well. Thank you
guys for tuning in. Subscribe and I'll
see you next time. Bye.